Working hours:
Daily from 9.00 to 16.00, except Saturday and Sunday


Phone number:
+7 (843) 273-04-64


Address:
st. Galeeva, 3A, Kazan, Rep. Tatarstan, 420061


Visiting rules:
Do not spoil the exhibits
Do not bring food / drink with you


About the museum:
We are glad to welcome you to the Museum of the History of Communications of the Republic of Tatarstan.

The idea of ​​creating the Museum of the History of Communications of the Republic of Tatarstan emerged in the Industrial and Technical Department of Communications of the TASSR in 1987; The work on the organization of the museum was headed by Korobovkina Elena Iosifovna, all heads of communications enterprises were instructed to create a group "Search" and take an active part in equipping the museum with exhibits. The second floor with an area of ​​100 sq.m. was allocated for the museum. in house No. 15 on Bauman Street and on November 27, 1988, the museum opened its doors to visitors, where an exposition dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the history of the development of telephone communications in Kazan was created. Already during the construction of the museum, there was an intensive replenishment of exhibits in all sub-sectors of communication, which led to the creation of the second stage of the museum.

On May 7, 1990, the museum reopened its doors on an area of ​​400 sq.m., the new exposition included materials on the history of postal, telegraph, radio and television communications. The authors of the exposition were the employees of the city museums G.G. Nurutdinov. and Bakirova L.Ya.

In 2003, the Museum of the History of Communications moved to the building of the Kazan Electrotechnical School of Communications (KETS), where two museums merged - KETS and the Museum of the History of Communications of the Republic of Tatarstan. At present, the united museum is geographically located on the 2nd floor of the educational building of GAPOU "International Competence Center - Kazan Technical School of Information Technologies and Communications" and is on the balance sheet of PJSC "Tattelecom". A space of 340 sq.m. was allocated for the museum.

In 2017, the exposition of the museum was updated and consists of 2 large halls, decorated in a modern, easy-to-view format.

The first hall begins with the exposition “History in the Faces” of PJSC Tattelecom. Further, in chronological order, materials are presented that tell about the development of postal, telegraph, telephone communications, communications during the Great Patriotic War. Above the windows is information about the Heroes of the Soviet Union - our fellow countrymen-signalmen, who at the cost of their lives provided communications for the management of military operations. Hall 1 ends with the exposition “History in faces” of the Ministry of Informatization and Communications of the Republic of Tatarstan.

The second hall begins with the exposition "History in faces" of the MCC KTITS. Here are presented materials in chronological order, telling about the development of radio communications, television and modern communications. Also in the 2nd hall there is a small video room with 25 seats, which allows you to organize viewing of historical films and educational videos.

Learn more about rare exhibits, delve into the history of the development of communications in the Republic of Tatarstan from the middle of the 19th century. before the beginning of the XXI century. - You can free on guided tours by appointment. The funds of the museum consist of exhibits (including those in use) reflecting the development of all areas of communication: telephones and telegraphs of different periods, televisions, radios, measuring equipment, testing devices, photos and collections of documents from communications veterans and many other interesting things.
